# NPSC Meeting Notes

Feb 25 2020. Day 1 Working  Group Meetings
Vancouver. Blue Horizon Hotel.

## Important bits:

* A policy needs to be developed for data sharing for 2021 for sure. This should probably be put forward by the NPAFC
* Theme councel groups are not actually functtioning, but being depended on for identifying country leads... and who is doing what.

Laurie Weitkamp 2019 Preliminary Cruise Results.
Challenges from Laurie Weitkamp and integrating
* Everyone has other jobs
* What are other people working on and what have they found?
* Meeting and working through analyses and defining papers that could be written
* What other methods are there other than workshop formats?
    Brett note: Perhaps design sprints / code sprints? How can we collaborate more effectively?
* Mark: How to function as a team to develop analyses, and write papers...
* Laurie: eDNA data is 'almost propritary' because people don't want to share this data before it's published.
* Laurie thinks Pinks are further south. Distribution is based on temperature and so survey design depends on ocean conditions
* Chrys has asked Laurie not to show data from Sockeye
* The issue isn't so much data sharing but rather showing un-published results
* Brett note: PIs who are too busy to work up data need to be identified so that data sharing doesn't languish.

## Data sharing and PI support to work up the data
Questiton from Mark.

Russia - Igor Melakov: 
* 'Open data sharing policy is the right policy'
* Study protocols orgnaized by the vessel crews in advance

Japan - Shigheko: 
* Sharing data is important but protocols for sharing and publication need to be made clear
* Not enough researchers in their institute, but looking currently

Canada - Jim Irvine
* Difference in data sharing of collection, vs. bringing it backt to the lab to work up results may cause the feeling of more ownership
* Idea of personal project is a  problem
* Needs international teams identified for specific research topics
* Timeline needs to be identified for sharing data... 2 years, 10 years?
* Everyone has to have access eventually.

Korea
* No interest from governemnt in salmon
* May have ship time from oceanographic vessel

## Mark Reviews 2019

* We should be recording workshop talks from NPAFC and uploading them online
* Deliberatet Synthesis of all meetings and workshops to make sure research topics are pertinent
  * Brett note: Can this be accomplished by AI / Reccomender systems?
* We shoulds be thinking of how we report the status of salmon
* Think about integrating PICES oceanographic data holdings into IYS-OOS
* NPAFC houses some tagging data.
* Investment in making NPAFC data published by member nations to synthesize data is needed
* Governance structure needs to be better established
* Jim Irvine suggested that relevant literature is brought together in a bibliography perhaps organized by theme groups.

My Q. What are theme counsel groups? How are these split out? Perhaos Theme Councel Groups should be based on the GOOS domains.

## Overview of the High Seas 2020 Cruise

Not an offical NPAFC cruise but it IS an IYS cruise
Less oceanographic data

## Overview of the High Seas 2021 Cruise

Canadian Vessel confirmed (Franklin). Two Russian Vessels. 1 Amercican Vessel (Shimata)

Nets are purchased for the Franklin. Similar to the Russian net.

Years 2 and 3: 

Post doc ares:
* physical ocgy, biological oceanography, modelling, feeding ecology and energetics, salmon distrtibution and abundance and migration, genomics and stock ID, microplastics.

2020 cruise will use the same trawl net used on the Franklin in 2021.

* Little input from oceanographers? Are convergent zones too large to target during surveys?

